WiSe2024-c3-seminar.md, before:

# Confidential Cloud Computing (“c3-seminar”) -- WiSe 2024

## Chair website

- The seminar is organized by the [Chair of Computer Systems](https://dse.in.tum.de/) at TU Munich.

## Course Information
- **Language:** English
- **Type:** Seminar Course (BSc and MSc)
- **Module:** IN0014, IN2107
- **Prerequisites:**
   - We do not have any compulsory prerequisites, but we prefer students to be proficient in the basic concepts of operating systems, virtualization technology, systems programming (C/C++/Rust), or equivalent background. Please check with the instructor, if you think your background is insufficient. 
    - Additional preferred pre-requisites, but not compulsory courses at TUM:
      - IN2073: Cloud Computing
      - IN2125: Virtualization Techniques
      - Operating Systems and System Software
      - Praktikum: Systems Programming in C++
      - Praktikum: Advanced Systems Programming in C/Rust
- **TUM Online:** 
  - You must register for this course in TUM Online before the course starts
- **Student note:**
  - Compulsory enrollment after two weeks of the matching outcome; students who fail to de-register in this period will be registered, evaluated and receive a grade in their student record.

## Course Details
This course will introduce advanced topics in computer security and confidential computing in the cloud. Many modern cloud workloads deal with confidential and security-sensitive data such as medical records, voice recordings, and financial information. 
However, cloud environments impose security issues because they might be maintained by untrusted and malicious cloud providers who have privileged access.
To ensure code integrity and provide strong isolation from untrusted parties, hardware-assisted confidential computing with Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) has been widely studied for decades.
Typical examples include technologies such as *Intel SGX*, *Intel TDX*, *AMD SEV*, *Arm CCA* and *Arm Trustzone*. 
The students will learn about these latest confidential computing technologies to protect such security domains in the untrusted cloud infrastructures. 
The course will cover a range of topics including:
- Cloud computing systems
- Computer system security
- Trusted Execution Environments
- Confidential computing primitives (e.g., remote attestation methods)
- Operating systems and hypervisors
- Fault-tolerance and reliable systems

The students will read, discuss, and analyze recent papers in the top conferences of this field, particularly OSDI, EuroSys, ASPLOS, USENIX Security, IEEE S&P, and ACM CCS. 
Students are expected to read papers in-depth prior to class and take turns in preparing and delivering high-quality presentations of the papers. 
Furthermore, the students will actively participate in the discussion to critically analyze the systems, and propose (or even implement) advancements of the state-of-the-art. 
More concretely, the students will learn:
- Advanced scientific topics in confidential cloud systems
- Scientific report preparation 
- Presentation and discussion of scientific results
- Peer-review of the scientific reports 

## Registration

- **Capacity:** We plan to have at most 24 places in the seminar.
- **Deadline:** Two weeks after the matching period, we will formally enroll you for the course. If you want to drop out, please inform us before the registration deadline.

## Slack workspace

We will use Slack for all communication. Please enroll in our Slack workspace using your official TUM email address.

- **Slack workspace:** https://ls1-courses-tum.slack.com
- **Slack channel:** #ws-24-c3-seminar

## Meeting place

- Preliminary meeting
   - Zoom link: To be announced
- Kick-off meeting
   - Zoom link: To be announced
- The research presentations (day 1 and 2)
   - In-person (see [Important Dates](#important-dates))

## Important resources

Please carefully go over the following resources to prepare for the seminar:

- [Overview](docs/c3-seminar-overview.pdf) - To be announced
- [Paper reading](docs/paper-reading.pdf)
- [Presentation](docs/presentation.pdf)
- [Report](docs/report.pdf)
- [Participation](docs/participation.pdf)
- [Peer reviewing](docs/peer-review.pdf)
- [Grading](docs/grading.pdf)
- [System building](docs/system-building.pdf) (Optional)

## Important dates

- **Preliminary meeting:** To be announced

- **Kick-off meeting:** To be announced

- **Research presentation (Day 1):** To be announced

- **Research presentation (Day 2):** To be announced

- **Report due (via HotCRP):** To be announced

- **Peer-review due (via HotCRP):** To be announced


## Paper reading list

- The list of papers will be released on Slack *in the first week* of the course.


## Report submission and peer-review portal

We will manage the submission and peer-reviewing of reports via HotCRP:

- [HotCRP portal](https://tum-ss2021.hotcrp.com/)


## Contact

We *strongly* prefer slack for all communications. For any further questions/comments, please contact the course organizer(s):
- [Dimitrios Stavrakakis](https://dimstav23.github.io/)
- [Prof. Pramod Bhatotia](https://dse.in.tum.de/bhatotia/)

Commit message:

WiSe2024-c3-seminar: minor change to specify the FCFS paper selection
Signed-off-by: dimstav23 <dimstav23@gmail.com>

WiSe2024-c3-seminar.md, after:

# Confidential Cloud Computing (“c3-seminar”) -- WiSe 2024

## Chair website

- The seminar is organized by the [Chair of Computer Systems](https://dse.in.tum.de/) at TU Munich.

## Course Information
- **Language:** English
- **Type:** Seminar Course (BSc and MSc)
- **Module:** IN0014, IN2107
- **Prerequisites:**
   - We do not have any compulsory prerequisites, but we prefer students to be proficient in the basic concepts of operating systems, virtualization technology, systems programming (C/C++/Rust), or equivalent background. Please check with the instructor, if you think your background is insufficient. 
    - Additional preferred pre-requisites, but not compulsory courses at TUM:
      - IN2073: Cloud Computing
      - IN2125: Virtualization Techniques
      - Operating Systems and System Software
      - Praktikum: Systems Programming in C++
      - Praktikum: Advanced Systems Programming in C/Rust
- **TUM Online:** 
  - You must register for this course in TUM Online before the course starts
- **Student note:**
  - Compulsory enrollment after two weeks of the matching outcome; students who fail to de-register in this period will be registered, evaluated and receive a grade in their student record.

## Course Details
This course will introduce advanced topics in computer security and confidential computing in the cloud. Many modern cloud workloads deal with confidential and security-sensitive data such as medical records, voice recordings, and financial information. 
However, cloud environments impose security issues because they might be maintained by untrusted and malicious cloud providers who have privileged access.
To ensure code integrity and provide strong isolation from untrusted parties, hardware-assisted confidential computing with Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) has been widely studied for decades.
Typical examples include technologies such as *Intel SGX*, *Intel TDX*, *AMD SEV*, *Arm CCA* and *Arm Trustzone*. 
The students will learn about these latest confidential computing technologies to protect such security domains in the untrusted cloud infrastructures. 
The course will cover a range of topics including:
- Cloud computing systems
- Computer system security
- Trusted Execution Environments
- Confidential computing primitives (e.g., remote attestation methods)
- Operating systems and hypervisors
- Fault-tolerance and reliable systems

The students will read, discuss, and analyze recent papers in the top conferences of this field, particularly OSDI, EuroSys, ASPLOS, USENIX Security, IEEE S&P, and ACM CCS. 
Students are expected to read papers in-depth prior to class and take turns in preparing and delivering high-quality presentations of the papers. 
Furthermore, the students will actively participate in the discussion to critically analyze the systems, and propose (or even implement) advancements of the state-of-the-art. 
More concretely, the students will learn:
- Advanced scientific topics in confidential cloud systems
- Scientific report preparation 
- Presentation and discussion of scientific results
- Peer-review of the scientific reports 

## Registration

- **Capacity:** We plan to have at most 24 places in the seminar.
- **Deadline:** Two weeks after the matching period, we will formally enroll you for the course. If you want to drop out, please inform us before the registration deadline.

## Slack workspace

We will use Slack for all communication. Please enroll in our Slack workspace using your official TUM email address.

- **Slack workspace:** https://ls1-courses-tum.slack.com
- **Slack channel:** #ws-24-c3-seminar

## Meeting place

- Preliminary meeting
   - Zoom link: To be announced
- Kick-off meeting
   - Zoom link: To be announced
- The research presentations (day 1 and 2)
   - In-person (see [Important Dates](#important-dates))

## Important resources

Please carefully go over the following resources to prepare for the seminar:

- [Overview](docs/c3-seminar-overview.pdf) - To be announced
- [Paper reading](docs/paper-reading.pdf)
- [Presentation](docs/presentation.pdf)
- [Report](docs/report.pdf)
- [Participation](docs/participation.pdf)
- [Peer reviewing](docs/peer-review.pdf)
- [Grading](docs/grading.pdf)
- [System building](docs/system-building.pdf) (Optional)

## Important dates

- **Preliminary meeting:** To be announced

- **Kick-off meeting:** To be announced

- **Research presentation (Day 1):** To be announced

- **Research presentation (Day 2):** To be announced

- **Report due (via HotCRP):** To be announced

- **Peer-review due (via HotCRP):** To be announced


## Paper reading list

Please use the following list to select a paper (FCFS): 

- The list of papers will be released on Slack *in the first week* of the course.


## Report submission and peer-review portal

We will manage the submission and peer-reviewing of reports via HotCRP:

- [HotCRP portal](https://tum-ss2021.hotcrp.com/)


## Contact

We *strongly* prefer slack for all communications. For any further questions/comments, please contact the course organizer(s):
- [Dimitrios Stavrakakis](https://dimstav23.github.io/)
- [Prof. Pramod Bhatotia](https://dse.in.tum.de/bhatotia/)
